EIP-4841: Expandable Onchain SVG Images Storage (#4841)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-4841.md

---
eip: 4841
title: Expandable Onchain SVG Images Storage

> description: It is a Expandable Onchain SVG Images Storage Structure Model on Ethereum.

Reviewer: Description should not start with "it is" - the subject is implied.

Author: Done! Thanks for your review.

author: KyungEun Kim <kkekke815@gmail.com>, Soohan Park <725psh@gmail.com>, Soohan Park (@Soohan-Park)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-4841-expandable-onchain-svg-images-storage-structure/8410
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-02-23
---

> 

Reviewer: Please remove the extra spacing here.

Author: Done! Thanks for your review.

---
eip: 4841
title: Expandable Onchain SVG Images Storage
description: Expandable SVG images storage model for storing larger-capacity images on Ethereum.
author: KyungEun Kim <kkekke815@gmail.com>, Soohan Park <725psh@gmail.com>, Soohan Park (@Soohan-Park)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-4841-expandable-onchain-svg-images-storage-structure/8410
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-02-23
---

## Abstract

> This standard proposal is an Expandable Onchain SVG Images Storage on Ethereum that permanently preserves images and prevents tampering, and can store larger-capacity images furthermore.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This standard introduces an Expandable Onchain SVG Image Store, that permanently preserves images and prevents tampering.
```

> This standard proposal is a Expandable Onchain SVG Images Storage on the Ethereum that permanently preserves images and prevents tampering, and can store larger-capacity images furthermore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This standard proposal is an Expandable Onchain SVG Images Storage on the Ethereum that permanently preserves images and prevents tampering, and can store larger-capacity images furthermore.
```

Author: Oh... What a stupid mistake... :cry:

> It is a structure designed to store SVG images with a larger capacity by distributing SVG images in units of tags on Ethereum.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is a structure designed to store SVG images across multiple contracts in units of tags on Ethereum.
```

The structure presented by this EIP consists of a total of three layers as shown below.

![StructureDiagram.jpg](../assets/eip-4841/StructureDiagram.jpg)

> > **Storage Layer ─** A contract layer that stores distributed SVG images by tags.  

Reviewer 2: It might be helpful to define "tag". Do you mean XML tag, or some sort of category tag?

Author: Actually, it means "XML tag" :)
I recognized the sentence could be confused, so I will refine it.
Thanks a lot!

> **Assemble Layer ─** A contract layer that creates SVG images by combining tags stored in the Storage Layer's contract.  
> **Property Layer ─** A contract layer that stores the attribute values for which SVG tag to use.

> It is designed to flexibly store and utilize larger capacity SVG images by interacting with the above three layer-by-layer contracts each other.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is designed to flexibly store and render larger SVG images by interacting with the above three layer-by-layer contracts each other.
```

It might also be helpful to describe how this three layer design saves on fees/storage space.

Author: Well.. When we first designed this EIP, it was not designed to save fees/storage space by dividing it into 3 layers.

The reason why we designed with three layers is that when saving SVG images, we designed three layers to store a large capacity and to have flexibility in scalability. (Therefore, using the model increases the cost a little more.)

Should EIP be aimed at saving fees/storage space?

Author: > @SamWilsn Well.. When we first designed this EIP, it was not designed to save fees/storage space by dividing it into 3 layers.
> 
> The reason why we designed with three layers is that when saving SVG images, we designed three layers to store a large capacity and to have flexibility in scalability. (Therefore, using the model increases the cost a little more.)
> 
> Should EIP be aimed at saving fees/storage space?

I got an answer from @Pandapip1

Author: > It might also be helpful to describe how this three layer design saves on fees/storage space.

thanks for your feedback :)  
well I think it will be placed more natural in Rationale. How do you think about that?

> Also, you can configure the on-chain NFT images storage by adjusting the Assemble Layer's contract like below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, you can configure the on-chain NFT images storage by adjusting the Assemble Layer's contract as shown below.
```

- Storage with expandability by allowing additional deployment on Storage Layer's contracts
- Storage with immutability after initial deployment

> Additionally, this standard proposal focuses on but is not limited to compatibility with the [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) standard.

Reviewer 2: Not sure how relevant this is to the abstract.

## Motivation

> Most NFT projects store their NFT metadata on a centralized server rather than on Ethereum. Although this method is the cheapest and easiest way to store and display the content of the NFT, there is a risk of corruption or loss of the NFT's metadata. In addition, even in the case of IPFS, tampering of contents can be prevented, but contents could be lost if there is no node storing the contents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most NFT projects store their NFT metadata on a centralized server rather than on Ethereum. Although this method is the cheapest and easiest way to store and distribute the content of the NFT, there is a risk of corruption or loss of the NFT's metadata. In the worst case, the content can be tampered with. Even with secured storage, like IPFS, the contents could be lost if there is no node storing it.
```

> To solve this problem, most NFT metadata is stored on Ethereum. However, it can only be expressed as a simple shape such as a circle or a rectangle, since one contract can be distributed 24 KB size for maximum.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To solve this problem, NFT metadata can be stored on Ethereum. However, it can only be expressed as a simple shape such as a circle or a rectangle, since each single contract is limited to 24 KB.
```

> To solve this problem, most NFT metadata is stored on Ethereum. However, it can only be expressed as a simple shape such as a circle or a rectangle, since one contract can be distributed 24 KB size for maximum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To solve this problem, most NFT metadata is stored on Ethereum. However, it can only be expressed as a simple shape such as a circle or a rectangle, since one contract can be distributed 24 kB size for maximum.
```

> We propose this model _─ a more secure way to store NFT metadata ─_ to create and own high-quality NFT metadata.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

I think you can just omit this line.

Author: @SamWilsn 
I'm drafting a revision for that part like below.
Don't you still need the last sentence?

> **...**
> However, since the maximum size that can be distributed in one contract is 24 KB, only small and simple SVG images can be saved.
> 
> Therefore, to solve this problem, we propose a model that can store large, high-quality SVG images on Ethereum and have scalability.

## Specification

The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

> We would like to explain each of the three layers of the proposed model in detail.
> 
> After classifying layers according to functions and roles and distributing them to different contracts, these contracts are logically connected to be used as a contract with one large storage space.

Reviewer 2: As a technical article, I think you can leave out a lot of the introductory content.

```suggestion
Images stored according to this standard must be split into three layers: Storage, Assemble, and Property.
```

  ```solidity
  /**
  * @param newAssembleContractAddr_ Address value of `AssembleContract` to be changed.
  * @dev If later changes or extensions are unnecessary, write directly to `constructor` without implementing the function.
  */
  function setAssembleContract(address newAssembleContractAddr_) public virtual {
      assembleContract = IAssembleContract(newAssembleContractAddr_);
  }
  ```

- `_setAttr(uint256)`: This is a function that sets the attribute value of which SVG image tag to load. The logic for how to set the property value **MUST** be implemented separately according to the direction to be used.

  ```solidity
  /**
  * @param tokenId_ The token ID for which you want to set the attribute value.
  * @dev Set the attribute value of the corresponding `tokenId_` sequentially according to the number of asset storage.
  */
  function _setAttr(uint256 tokenId_) internal virtual {
      for (uint256 idx=0; idx < assembleContract.getStorageCount(); idx++) {
          uint256 newValue = 0;

          /// @dev Implement the property value setting logic.

          _attrs[tokenId_].push(newValue);
      }
  }
  ```

## Rationale

### Large Capacity Storage

> The best way for us to keep our content permanent and tamper-proof is to store it on Ethereum, rather than on centralized servers or IPFS, where it can be tampered with or lost. Like the SVG format, various extensions have come out to reduce the size of the content, but most of the content still has a size of several MB or more. Through this EIP, we would like to provide a solution that can safely store SVG images in sizes ranging from tens of KB to several MB on Ethereum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The best way for us to keep our content permanent and tamper-proof is to store it on Ethereum, rather than on centralized servers or IPFS, where it can be tampered with or lost. Like the SVG format, various extensions have come out to reduce the size of the content, but most of the content still has a size of several megabytes or more. Through this EIP, we would like to provide a solution that can safely store SVG images in sizes ranging from tens of KB to several MB on Ethereum.
```

---
eip: 4841
title: Expandable Onchain SVG Images Storage Structure
description: It is a Expandable Onchain SVG Images Storage Structure Model on Ethereum.
author: KyungEun Kim <kkekke815@gmail.com>, Soohan Park <725psh@gmail.com>, Soohan Park (@Soohan-Park)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-4841-expandable-onchain-svg-images-storage-structure/8410
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-02-23
---

> ## Simple Summary
> It is a Expandable Onchain SVG Images Storage Structure Model on Ethereum.
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Simple Summary isn't a valid EIP section.  See https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ethereum/EIPs/master/eip-template.md for the correct layout.

Author: Confirmed :)

It is a structure designed to store SVG images with a larger capacity by distributed SVG images in units of tags on Ethereum.

The structure presented by this EIP consists of a total of three layers as shown below.

![StructureDiagram.jpg](../assets/eip-4841/StructureDiagram.jpg)

> **Storage Layer ─** A contract layer that stores distributed SVG images by tags.  
> **Assemble Layer ─** A contract layer that creates SVG images by combining tags stored in the Storage Layer's contract.  
> **Property Layer ─** A contract layer that stores the attribute values for which SVG tag to use.  

It is designed to flexibly store and utilize larger capacity SVG images by interacting with the above three layer-by-layer contracts each other.

Also, you can configure the Onchain NFT Images Storage by adjusting the Assemble Layer's contract like below.

* A storage with expandability by allowing additional deployment on Storage Layer's contracts
* A storage with immutability after initial deployment

> Additionally, this standard proposal focuses on, but is not limited to, compatibility with the [EIP-721](/EIPS/eip-721.md) standard.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Additionally, this standard proposal focuses on, but is not limited to, compatibility with the [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) standard.
```

Author: Confirmed :)
